quick what's your phone's wallpaper
right now you might want to change it to
a shade of black if saving time and
money sounds like a good deal
this trick only works on one screen type
though and here's why there are two
popular types of smartphone screens at
the moment LCD and AMOLED LCD means
liquid crystal display it's used in
televisions monitors and many smartphone
models there are real crystals in it
they can't emit their own light but take
from a light source behind them this
process eats a lot of battery power but
the black wallpaper trick won't work on
this type of screen whenever the phone
is active it lights up every pixel you
see no matter what color it is AMOLED is
mostly used in newer smartphones it has
an active matrix and is made of organic
material it generates its own light it
doesn't need backlighting that's why it
can turn off pixels and show a true
black it can save you a good amount of
battery if you go for a pitch-black
wallpaper for your luck and home screens
LCD screens are still doing the job but
OLED technology is more progressive it
shows a wider range of colors there are
more shades of green and blue for
example and white looks naturally wide
and not bluish that's why pictures look
more vibrant it can also be made curved
and foldable displays are possible
because the screens can be really thin
but if you don't have an OLED screen and
you want to save your battery there are
some battery saving tips that will work
for most phones go light most social
media and communication apps have light
many or progressive web versions these
days they were originally designed for
developing markets and phones that don't
have very powerful processors but many
are available worldwide and work on most
phones they have all the basic features
but require less space run quicker and
eat less battery know your enemy consult
battery usage and tap to find out which
apps are having a feast on your battery
it will show your activity in different
apps in proportion for the last 24 hours
or 10 days if you don't use an app
that much but it's on the top of the
list there might be a bug to blame
Triforce closing and reinstalling it if
you're on T Mollet opt for the dark mode
most apps like social media and
electronic readers now have it
it saves up to sixty percent of battery
compared to regular versions of the apps
plus it's stylish and doesn't strain
your eyes as much when you're using your
phone in the dark
adjust your built-in GPS if you have an
android switch to device only location
mode and disable Wi-Fi and bluetooth
scanning in location settings on an
iPhone deactivate location services
altogether or turn off features like
popular near me location-based ads and
setting time zone in location services
tab disable a Siri unless you really
need your little helper to be activated
by voice it's a sure battery drainer as
your gadget is always on the lookout for
you to say the magical words the same is
true for Google assistant plus it's
tracking your location to give you the
most useful info so turn it off unless
you rely on it
don't let your apps update automatically
background app refresh kindly takes care
of keeping your apps up to date it even
studies your habits and does it before
you normally activate the app this is
consuming a lot of battery disable it
and update your favorite apps manually
when you have enough battery to do so
make sure all the features you don't
need are off disable your hotspot unless
you're sharing cellular data Wi-Fi
doesn't have to be on 24/7 either
otherwise your phone will be on constant
open hotspot search and keep your
Bluetooth off whenever you aren't using
a wireless headset reduce motion some
phones have something called background
motion as you move the gadget app icons
and background seem to move in different
dimensions this effect eats up a lot of
battery life and dynamic wallpapers do
the same so stick to something static
do you really need vibration even when
you're on silent mode and vibration is
on the energy usage is wild in fact turn
down all the sound your phone is
producing for the love of its battery if
you have an Android try one of the
lockscreen apps you can customize it to
show the most important things without
constantly unlocking your fault
notifications from the apps you choose
upcoming events weather music player
taking and sending selfies lockscreen
apps can do it all you can even set its
working hours to save even more battery
manually turn off some pixels you can
install an app to do it on an OLED based
phone since it has so many pixels you
will hardly notice the difference
possibly the screen may get a little
darker depending on how much battery you
want to save you can choose how many
pixels you want to disable deactivate
data push when it's on your phone
automatically downloads no emails from
the server it keeps you updated but it's
another massive battery drainer an
alternative option is to change how
often your phone fetches new emails
going down from every 15 minutes to
every hour can make a huge difference
clear your cache or send your excess
cash to me just kidding
check if you have any unused or
temporary files you don't need anymore
and delete them if you don't do this
every once in a while the phone can be
overloaded and heat up more often and go
hard on your battery in